# I would like to be an open source software.

I want to be open source. It is a better way of creating and maintaining software. Good tech startups iterate quickly, making new versions of their software available to their community, because it is not ideas that make a company successful, but the successful execution of them. Open source philosophy takes community exposure to its extreme; the latest version of you software is *always* available to the community, and asks to be reviewed, improved and expanded.

The inner details of application logic is available for anyone to see. Pull requests, the means by which someone in the community can request that a feature or improvement they have written be incorporated into the core repository, are regulated, so that the product in its original location cannot be bastardized from its original form -- but there are no secrets. If someone wants to develop on top of the product, they can [fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) the repository, and work on the software in a new instance with all the original code.

Open source software works best when code is well-documented. Good documentation lowers the barrier to entry for people who are interested in contributing, and plays the leading role in demonstrating how the project thinks about itself. This is important, because we cannot constructively suggest anything to anyone unless we have some idea about how they think about themselves, and who they would like to become. From this point, we can offer criticism from a place of mutual understanding, making it much more likely that the suggestion will be swallowed rather than spat out, in turn making the suggestion much more productive.

Even speaking purely from the perspective of self-benefit (a perspective which we have come to understand as 'rationality'), making a project open source entails benefits that are not available to the private alternative. For one, your software is likely to be used a lot more. Software enthusiasts will download your software, because there is no commercial web. People can safely download your software without having to think about whether or not they are making a good move in the game of Capitalism. Moreover, you will hear about problems with your software quicker, and may even have people [fix your problems for you](https://github.com/facebook/react-native/pulls?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Apr+bug+). Not even because you are paying them, they just want to help!

Yevgeniy Brikman [writes](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920034360.do) that we are all already cyborgs: the technology that we use is an extension of the way we think about ourselves, and of the way that we think about others. This history of messages, notes, profiles and other digital inscriptions enacted by or associated with me is an astonishing large component of my self-consideration, and is no less important than my memory's audiotapes of conversation, the still-frames of pictures I vainly flick through when I feel the need the remind myself how I look, or the video-reel of me turning my head from side to side, etched in mirrors I have pondered at length.