# for all the thought i have put into code

for this past year i have been coding a lot. initially, it was because i didn't know much about the web, about the framework economy, and about the practice of software development. i was desperate, in an ambitious, stay-up-all-night-to-learn-about-promises sort of way, and fascinated. now i am on the top floor of a five-storey penthouse opposite the metropolitan museum in new york, reflecting.

being on top of the world is a misrepresentation--i'm just staying with family friends. i haven't made millions, i haven't changed the world, i haven't even introduced anything moderately transformative into the digital ecosystem, for all the thought i have put into code. the only non-intangible product i can claim from the year is a proof-of-concept application for delivering drinks from a factory to corner stores, which i made in the first months of this year. but that application isn't anything but a proof-of-concept, and a codebase to work with when someone decides to put money behind the initiative.

loathe as i am to practice language that is business standard, my achievements this past year don't size up to **lean** productivity. i found myself vaguely disillusioned yesterday evening, lying in a big soft bed, un-wanting to code, read, think or write, despite having at least ten projects that need movement in the current moment, sitting at my bedside in a brand new purple case. somehow i have become a cog in the economic machine, satisfied enough making money for money's sake, where being captivated by the daily work load is a bonus but by no means a requirement. yesterday i pervasively felt overweight, repeatedly rested idle moments in tinder swipes and other searches for not wanting to be completely alone, and spent an excessive amount of money on customer goods at a commercial outlet. though i can generate justification for every individual activity, as an isolated instance, the sum is disconnected and disunified, altogether making the feeling 'fruitless'.

in rome, i was so taken with the idea of freedom that i decided not to return to princeton. i drew up a syllabus of books i wanted to read, philosophies and frameworks i longeed to uncover. in frascati, i was fascinated with almost every bit of code of every day. i meditated every now and then, and started something just about every week. in nepi i had more hourly obligations, but i knitted, and coded, and listened to italian; and even read history now and then. in germany, i worked days and nights in the artirigo office, enjoying my own personality after having had noone to share it with for so long. in new york; i am trying to recover from self-conception, and reinstall the worldy and quotidian fascination that has held me together and cut me open these past two years at princeton--and to not open tinder in a bout of vague distraction.

it is perhaps that princeton seems so privileged and irrelevant, in the context of everything else. in service of living physically, and not just as a technologocial spectre, i will return to thrive in that insularity, come september (that is, if i can even form my body sharp enough that i can feel thrift again). i cannot justify academic reading, when i know i have only so many hours, and that there is abundant software to be written, if i only focus, and follow through. but i do not want to focus or follow through. i want to dance with ideas, prove that they are useful, but never be pressed to follow up on them. i cannot create software and then no longer maintain it as soon as the idea's interest has expired for me.

almost all of my projects this year have fallen apart. i didn't even manage to finish the one song i started writing, 'indigo'. (i should do that today). opensource me is still in the works. my freelance work continues as the opportunity to learn from a focused freelancer with whom i am working, and money that i probably don't need. this summer i will work some more, for a company, not earning an especially large amount of money. i ought to plan to read more, otherwise i will not. find some reason to stay up all night. 